To get started building and customizing our own Shopify theme,
what we're going to need is a Shopify store.
Lucky for us, we can build a free store using a Shopify partner's account.
Now this account is completely free and we
need to join the partner program in order to get it.
Alternatively, if you do have a store already, this first part,
where we sign up to partners and log into the store through the partner's account,
is not going to apply to you.
But everything from when we get into
our development store is going to apply to you and your store.
All you need to do is log into your store.
Otherwise, if you don't have your own store already,
you might want to create a development store.
What is a development store?
Well, I've got a article from Shopify right here to look into.
It's basically a theme that we can
do all the different things that we would do in a normal Shopify theme,
but with some limitations right here.
The idea of a development store is as a Shopify partner,
as somebody who develops Shopify themes or works with Shopify clients,
you would create a store, work on it,
develop it, and then pass it off to the client later,
and then that becomes their store,
at which point then the client or the seller,
whoever it is that's owning that store,
is going to pay for that store moving forward.
It's a way to develop stores without having a Shopify account or Shopify plan yet.
This is perfect for our purposes because we are learning how to develop themes.
We don't necessarily want to pay the $30-300 a
month to Shopify in order to play around and develop themes.
I already have a Shopify partners account.
All I need to do is click Login.
I'm not going to go through the whole signing up process,
should be pretty straight forward right now because I am an affiliate,
it'll go into my referred stores.
But if I click on top here at Development Stores,
you can see that we have a button here to create a new store.
I'm going to click on that and I'm going to give
the store a name, Chris' Skillshare store.
I'm going to create a password using my password manager.
This one will do, put it in here,
and make sure you save that password somewhere.
It's going to require your store details,
so I'm going to put in some fake details here,
and I am going to choose a store purpose.
We can choose playing around.
I'm going to click Save and as soon as I click Save,
I'm going to need to save that password, of course.
I'm going to create a new document anywhere,
you can write this down anyway,
and I'm going to note this password, Shopify Store, password.
Look how quick that was.
We have a store already,
and this store is free to use.
We didn't have to create a plan or anything.
Obviously, if we wanted this to be a legitimate store,
we would have to pay for a plan and then probably get our own domain.
But now we can work with pretty much a fully functioning theme and
learn everything we need to know about Shopify theme development within this environment.
At this point, if you had a store already,
this is what it should look like when you've logged into your store.
We should all be on the same page right now.
To get us familiar with the Shopify platform,
I'm going to be talking about these menu items and
what you can do within Shopify in a later video.
But for now, the focus is on themes.
We can find our themes by clicking on
Online Store and going to the first menu item called Themes,
which is automatically selected.
If we want to view our store,
we can click View Your Store right here.
It'll come up with our store names separated by hyphens.myshopify.com.
As you can see, we have a fully functioning theme straight away.
What Shopify have done is they've loaded in a free theme for us to use.
This one is the Debut theme,
but it's not necessarily going to be the case for you.
This is subject to change,
but it doesn't really matter what starting point you start with.
Everything we're learning from this point will be the same.
Currently, you can see that we're running Debut theme,
and over here we have actions,
so we can preview the theme.
We can rename the theme,
duplicate it, download the whole theme.
We can edit the code,
and we can edit the language file.
We can also click here to customize and that gives us a user interface that
we can change things about a website without digging into any code. It's really cool.
Within our theme development,
we'll show you how to create your own customization options,
which is really simple and one of the great things about Shopify.
We're going to get into customizing in one second, and I'm going to show you that.
But before we get into that,
I wanted to quickly cover something
that might trip you up and that's in your preferences,
you will have password protection enabled by default.
That means that if you want to share the store with anyone else to look at,
they're going to need this password.
This is going to be login screen that shows
up and they'll have to put in this password in order to see it.
If you're okay with people seeing it,
you can disable the password protection.
For our purposes, I don't think we really need password protection,
but it's there if you want,
and it's enabled by default.
Let's go back into our theme section and click Customize,
and I can show you the super powerful customization options within Shopify.
By default, you'll be customizing the homepage of your theme,
but you can click on this list and it gives you all the different templates that you can
edit depending on what theme you're using
or how many templates you've set up within your theme.
This list can get long,
but for our starter theme,
Debut theme, that's all that's available.
To draw your attention over to the left here,
with the first tab selected,
we have access to all the sections within our page.
The header and footer sections that are included with every page,
so if I go into, let's say,
Collection Pages, you'll see header and footer are there as well.
That stays standard across all pages as long as it's set up in the theme file.
We'll get into that, the actual code structure in a later video,
but here is the visual representation.
If I click on any of these sections,
I have customizable options.
I can add a logo image instead of the name of the store.
I can customize the menu,
and this is all set from within the code,
you have access to these customization options, which is really cool.
Obviously, the footer is the same thing,
but down the bottom of the page and here you can see what's called blocks.
We're going to learn how to use blocks in a later video,
but essentially, we can add an extra block here.
I don't know if it's going to update straight away.
Yes, quick links is here.
If we remove that content,
you'll see that we have less columns in here.
We can actually go through, add,
and delete different bits of content.
We can delete the newsletter and then now we have two blocks
and they automatically fill up the space evenly, which is really cool.
I'm going to reload because I don't want that change to save,
and then we'll talk about the sections between header and footer.
Now this part here of our sections
customizer is going to be different in different pages.
If we go to Collection Pages or Collections List or any of these,
you'll see that there's a single section and we can't
add or remove that section from the page.
That's because that section is hard-coded into
the page and we will see that later when we look at the code.
The difference between pretty much every other page in your Shopify site
compared to the homepage is we have this content for index section.
I shouldn't use the word section because I'm going to get you confused.
But we have this part of the sections
sidebar that we can add a section through these different presets.
Let's say we wanted to add a map.
If this section is set up in our code,
then we can add it and we have all these customization options.
We can reorder the sections,
so I can put map at the top in case I want to make that prominent.
I can show and hide the section and then I can remove it.
Basically on the homepage,
how it's set up is you have your header, you have your footer,
and then you have a list of sections that stack
on top of each other that you can customize.
Let's try a more practical example,
there's no About page, but let's say that you are on
an About page and you wanted to put that map in.
You could definitely insert that section,
but you would do it from within the code.
I'll show you how to do that once we dig into our theme code.
I'm a bit concerned because this video is probably a little bit long.
But to cover the other tab,
this is your theme settings,
and we can also edit
what settings come up in this section as well through our theme code.
But these cover settings that are going to be used throughout the whole website,
so headings and links, body texts,
sales price, what the color of buttons are going to be.
This is site wide stuff,
so we can put whatever we want in here through our own theme development,
but we've got some standard options here,
and this will affect the entire side.
We've got the Sections tab,
the Theme Settings tab.
We've got this selector here to select different pages to customize.
Up here, we can see our website on different screen sizes.
If we want to see it fully expanded,
we can click this button and it'll expand the full width of the screen.
The only problem with that one is you don't get access to your customizer.
Alternatively, you can click on this one and you can
see how your website looks on mobile.
You might have different customization options for mobile or for desktop,
so you might want to preview them or to see how your website's looking on mobile.
A lot of online stores,
the traffic is more than 50 percent mobile,
so it's very important to have a look at that tab.
Then when you're done customizing,
you'll want to click Save.
One more thing that I didn't cover, theme actions.
This is the same menu as what you had.
If we go back to where we were before,
this theme actions is the same,
or maybe a little bit less options,
but it's essentially the same as actions right here.
We're going to click into Actions probably in the next video,
but I wanted to show you the customizer.
If we click Save,
those changes will be live on this theme.
But I don't want to make any changes,
so I'm going to click Reload and then we're all at the same starting point.
Essentially, this is the user interface you have to interact with your theme.
Now what we're going to do is dig into the code of your theme.
In combination with what you do in your code plus what you do in your customizer,
you have virtually full control over your whole theme,
your whole look and feel of your online store.
We went over the customizer in this lesson.
Let's dive into the code in the next few videos.